2024 is the year that AI has taken over
the smartphone World it feels like
that's all every company wants to talk
about ai ai with AI Galaxy ai ai so
let's see where it's made a big
difference where it's made no difference
at all and we actually going right Back
to Basics has paid off even better
welcome to the best smartphones of 2024
and while we're at it also the worst
smartphones that you should not buy
we've got 10 categories and it's all
leading up to the one true overall
Champion so given that 2024 has been a
total AI arms race who is actually
winning that race well as far as apple
is concerned most of their AI features
are absent especially in Europe and the
few that are here are good but not
enough to ignore that feeling of is that
it I'd say Google's AI is better I love
some of the photography stuff that the
Google pixel's got going on like you
know that Zoom inhance feature that's
practically just an upgrade button for
your shots and I thought Gemini live
this instant free flowing AI chat was
kind of amazing but then chat gbt has
now just started doing the same thing
and in my experience that's better and
so ultimately Samsung takes it Samsung
AI came out first it was already pretty
interesting and they've only made it
more stable and given it more options
since then like I have actually used
some of their stuff like the live text
translations on a day-to-day basis so
given that the s24 ultra is Samsung's
kind of hero device this year this
trophy has that phone's name on it I'm
actually so happy with how these turned
out can you see how this isn't just a
flat photo of the phone too we actually
went and got the full 3D model of every
phone here laser etched into these
trophies front back and sides just like
my haircut very fun the most improved
phone this year has a very obvious
answer so last year Google released what
looked an awful lot like an offseason
April Fool Stoke with the Google pixel
fold these screen bezels in this crease
for this price and the thing barely even
folded flat when you opened it
unsurprisingly this this was one of the
worst phones of 2023 oh my God I
actually forgot how bad this crease was
but this year the new Google pixel 99
Pro fold is well it's infinitely better
at everything apart from the name like
what is this the software has come a
long way as you'd expect between a gen
one and gen 2 product and they've
actually Justified paying the extra to
buy a foldable this time but also the
hardware the crazy bezels are gone it's
thinner it's lighter it's faster it's
brighter if someone were to tell me they
went out and bought this thing I
wouldn't be holding in a laugh anymore
and that is a compliment I like this
thing and as usual if any company wants
these Awards just message us and we'll
send them and now we're on the subject
of foldable phones what's the best
foldable in the world ever well honestly
I'm kind of bummed about this last year
we saw something special with the
OnePlus open affordable with zero camera
compromise amazing battery and software
that actually made even people who'd
completely written foldables off
reconsider however they did not upgrade
it this year yeah well they they kind of
did they made this OnePlus open Apex
Edition which does sound very cool it
has more storage it has a dedicated VIP
security chip which can quickly cut an
app's access to your camera and
microphone and this fancy new red color
but it's powered by last year's chip
it's really hard to recommend that you
pay full whack pricing this year for
something that really should be heavily
discounted by now and so I spent quite a
lot of time deliberating between the
Samsung Galaxy zold 6 and the Google
pixel 9 Pro f eventually deciding that
it's just personal preference between
the two the pixel is thinner and it
feels a bit more like a normal phone
when folded and then the Samsung has
about 50% more power but neither of
these phones are actually taking home
the trophy so funny story I actually did
some very detailed testing until I
decided which phone won I got as far in
the process as to actually make a trophy
saying that the Samsung Galaxy Z fold 6
was the winner but that's because there
was one phone that I hadn't tested until
that point and that is the honor magic
V3 I got this thing a couple of weeks
ago but we won't be needing this anymore
for starters this thing is so pretty the
faux leather back the texture trim on
the spine it's got small bezels on both
the outside and the inside basically no
crease oh yeah and the phone is paper
thin it really is a spectacle but then
where this starts to get almost
confusing is instead of that size
reduction being achieved by chopping out
everything on the inside it's just
better this has got a far bigger battery
than Samsung it also has stylus support
it charges faster they even fit in a
proper Periscope zoom camera so the true
winner of the foldable category the only
thing that's a little bit less developed
is the foldable software Samsung can do
a bit more with a little bit more polish
but this Hardware feels so much better
that frankly I don't really care with
these smaller flip phones though I think
it's actually between Samsung and
Motorola I think Motorola's razor plus
is actually the prettier phone like the
cover screen is more impressive and it
feels like they've thought more
purposefully about what you can actually
do with it but ultimately Samsung just
has better fundamentals it is the
significantly more powerful phone
Samsung software skin is more reliable
and you get way more updates plus you
get Samsung's very optimized image
processing which does also make this the
better camera now it's not just OnePlus
who's bowed out this year because the
other iconic line of phones that's
notably absent is the compact Asus Zen
phones and it seems strange year after
year Asus released these super compact
but high-end phones and year after year
people labeled them as the gold standard
for their diminutive size but I think
the Crux of it is this when most people
are shopping for a smartphone the
primary limiting factor is budget we
want to get the most product for that
budget but you can't do that if you're
also working with a size constraint
there's a reason that the iPhone minis
failed so what's left then well I really
like the Samsung Galaxy s24 it's a very
light very small allrounder you get
Samsung's AI which as we've seen is the
best but the battery and the cameras
while solid aren't great for this
Flagship tier so then youve got the
Google pixel 9 Pro which has good
battery life and great cameras Google's
really neatened up their game in 2024
especially with their Flagship phones
but I would go as far as to say that
none of those beats the xiaomi
14 kind of reaching the limits of how
far I can stretch with a suit this tight
this thing isn't quite as mini as the
s24 but it's not far off and it has
topnotch cameras it's just so fun to
shoot with cuz it Doesn't for once feel
like you're getting the sloppy camera
seconds from the Ultra phone like it
definitely does with the Samsung Also
the battery does last a really long time
for such a small phone so here it is on
the plimp xiaomi did well
me that was disgusting now there are two
things that I would flag software wise
you get four years of software updates
here as opposed to seven on Samsung and
not everyone loves xiaomi's hyper OS
operating system it does feel a little
bit like a knockoff iOS but if that
doesn't matter to you then it is fast
and it is customizable the second thing
though is that slightly awkward fact
that xiaomi has actually already
released the xiaomi 15 but they just
have this extremely delayed process
getting those new phones to the west but
what if you just want a phone that lasts
forever well 2024 has actually been a
particularly good year for this Android
14 has improved basically every Flagship
phone's battery life by 10% plus and
apple specifically made battery one of
the key key things they focused on with
the iPhone 16s but if you're asking who
does it the best then that would have to
be Vivo now I never got around to making
a dedicated video on this bad boy but
let me tell you vivo's flagship phone
for 2024 the Vivo X200 Pro is an
absolutely mind-blowing phone its specs
Feel Like A Cut Above the Rest and
that's only Amplified when you use the
thing because it's so damn optimized but
I'm going to talk more about this later
for the purposes of right now just know
that this thing isn't one of those
mediocre mid-rangers strapped to an
absolutely Bonkers siiz battery it's an
incredible phone in its own right with a
6,000 Mah cell that actually uses that
insane amount of juice very efficiently
too so this was a pretty easy one for me
and I just want to mention while we're
on the topic there are two ways that I
could have done this whole trophy thing
and I spent a while going back and forth
on which one was the way to go cuz the
thing is Vivo is pretty tricky to buy in
the UK and the US which are two of our
three top viewing regions so some part
of me was thinking should I just stick
to rewarding the phones that you can
easily buy and get your full customer
support maybe but eventually I decided
that I don't see these videos as just a
buying guide this this is an awards
ceremony So eventually I decided it
would feel silly to not celebrate the
phones and the Innovation that I
actually feel deserves it just because
they're not made for certain markets all
right final few categories now before we
get to the overall winners and of course
tonight's big loser what is the best
phone for gaming can we get some rgbs in
here
well I would say there's three runners
up there's the obvious yearly phone from
red magic which is lost in the SE
somewhere which like all red magic
phones has absolutely beautiful Hardware
especially for the money but they need
to improve their software and their
front camera before I can Crown them the
best then also the iPhone 16 Pro Max and
the Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra they both
have really good screens very fast chips
good cooling basically all you need for
a Flawless gaming experience in most
cases but there is a clear leader of the
pack if you so desire it is the Rog
phone 9 Pro for two reasons this has the
brand new Snapdragon 8 Elite chip inside
of it which is topend nextg I don't know
quite how they got it in here so soon
but you can think of this as next year's
Flagship chip it's like a proper 30%
faster than the chips in the rest of
these phones but it's also Rog have
really mellowed out over the years the
software is less iny face gamer than it
used to be while actually hiding more
gamer Fe features than ever before the
design has got that cool gamery Edge to
it like this pixel display is the best
that they've done so far without looking
Tucky the cameras are the best they've
ever been you get a proper 50 megapix
main camera a pretty good three times
optical zoom camera and a serviceable
ultroid camera so if you do want to
properly sink your teeth into Mobile
gaming it's not close this thing is
amazing my only slight beef is that they
have had to tone down the speaker
quality a bit from their old phones to
make the bezels around the screen
smaller but we can't have everything
this is a banging phone okay so that's
gaming what is the best camera of 2024
you would expect this to be easy I
compared what I thought with the two
best smartphone cameras the iPhone 16
Pro Max and the Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra
and I found that the iPhone 1 so iPhone
right well that was before I tested the
vi X200 Pro the way that I would
describe this is technically speaking
the iPhone is a fantastic camera I don't
think I've ever taken a photo or video
on this thing thinking that sucks it
shoots exactly what you think it's going
to but when I use this phone the oh
that's not good I promise these are
really durable
trophies my wife comes to save the
day I just break things okay let's put
what's left of this trophy on the plint
we'll have to get a new one of these
made but the point I was making is when
I use this phone it makes me feel like I
can capture things that I never thought
I could it just bleeds style it's got a
big main camera sensor it's got a 200
megapixel zoom camera which means you
can get a lot closer to things than you
think an absolutely amazing portrait
mode that makes me feel like I could do
this as a career and even the video
quality is probably the best that I have
seen on Android so even though the phone
is not as widely available as others you
got to give credit where credits due or
I guess in this case broken trophies I
either want this in the west or I want
Western companies to be more like this
the only downside of shooting with Vivo
of course is that you've still got to
keep an eye on what you're shooting you
don't even need to do that with our
sponsor the insta 360
X4 because look at this if I attach this
camera onto the invisible selfie stick
and then I place it in the middle of
this basketball CT
wa I always forget how tall this thing
is then I don't need to think about
anything anymore it records an 8K
resolution it records in 360 so you can
capture every single part of this game
all at once and then if I later decided
that I wanted a completely different
Viewpoint of that same scene I can tap
on Josh's face instead of mine and voila
the camera follows him all the way
around instead but here's the coolest
part if you really decide that you want
to flex today you can swing the camera
around your head to capture these
frankly insane matrix-like bullet time
shots in which the camera and all
equipment around it disappears oh and
there's an exclusive holiday deal so
it's 15% off the X4 it's a free bullet
time handle like this and it's a free
invisible selfie stick all from the link
in the description so that's all the
subcategories let's talk winners so the
best budget phone of 2024 as per usual
there's been a billion of them all the
usual contenders there's great phones
from redmi there's great phones from
real me great phones from Poco but
there's one phone that to me feels
special and that is the cmf phone one
cuz here's the thing it's got the specs
that you'd be looking for at this $200
price nothing feels lacking when you're
using it but it combines that with a
pretty big practicality upside the thing
is modular and it has an entire
ecosystem of accessories just to go with
it and yeah not in a super slick
everything's magnetic and wirelessly
communicates kind of way but it's the
best it can be given the price and it's
far more than anyone else is doing it
means you damage your phone's back you
can just swap it out you want to add in
a phone stand just screw one in you want
a wallet you can have one completely
secured to the rear of your device oo I
feel like this trophy's turned out
particularly cool but while the best
budget phone was a pretty easy decision
the best mid-range phone was not
sleepless nights I tell you sleepless
nights you know that Meme I bet he's
thinking about other girls yeah that's
me but all I could think of was xiaomi
Samsung no no no Google OnePlus oh
nothing anyway there were a couple of
options that were easier to eliminate
like the Google pixel 8A which is a
little underpowered for what you're
paying doesn't have that great a battery
and also just looks kind of bad for a
2024 mid-range phone with these thick
and uneven screen borders the nothing
phone 2 is well it's last year's phone
and they haven't made a nothing phone 3
yet but now it gets tricky because I
think this phone the OnePlus Nord 4 is
absolutely amazing it's been a long time
since I've used a metal body phone this
thing takes me all the way back to the
HTC 1 days and those were good times
it's one of those phones that you pick
up and you're just like yes you get it
this works it's thin it's light it's
fast pretty much everything about it
feels Flagship and and it stands
shockingly close to phones like the
Samsung Galaxy s24 plus but at less than
half the price the only thing that puts
me off giving it the trophy is that the
ultra wide camera is really quite soft
and there is no zoom camera but
genuinely if this company had just
invested another $30 in this camera
system this would have been my favorite
phone for sure so this ended up for me
being a decision between the Samsung
Galaxy s24 Fe which is Samsung's
slightly scaled back s24 plus phone and
then the xiaomi 14t which is pretty
similar it's xiaomi's mid-range
equivalent to their Flagship 14 series
of phones and honestly when you put
these two side by side the s24 Fe does
feel pretty lazy by comparison it does
have a faster chip and it does have
wireless charging which the xiaomi
doesn't but it just feels like xiaomi
has put a lot more care into their
device the 14t has got a higher
resolution screen a larger battery
faster charging more RAM even just
comparing the screen bezels xiaomi feels
definitively ahead not to mention this
is the standard 14t which is quite a lot
cheaper than Samsung once you get to the
14t pro which is more similar it
absolutely smokes it also I was
expecting Samsung zoom camera to be
significantly better than xia since this
is a three times optical zoom and this
is a two times optical zoom but when I
tested it and I found that it wasn't I
looked up the specs only to find that
xiaomi zoom camera has a 50 megap
resolution Samsung's has eight which
just feels really rough for something of
this price and now just before the over
overall phone of the
Year someone has to take the L last year
it was Apple with the iPhone SE and
Google with their first pixel fold both
very prolific devices that the whole
industry knew were coming this year we
have something that I don't think anyone
saw coming really so hmd the company who
you most likely know for their Nokia
phones they decided this time around to
make something called the skyline
and um horrendously mediocre
device I mean first of all whose idea
was this design who decided that the
combination of a Sharp angular body and
then a rounded screen was the way to go
you literally picked the worst parts of
both decisions and merg them together
into a phone that looks even worse than
the sum of its parts the thing literally
looks like you started cutting out the
approximate shape of a smartphone and
then halfway through realized that you
couldn't actually be bothered the
cameras sound good on paper but the
tuning is bad you have to work to get
great images out of it and you don't get
like the 7 years of software support of
Samsung or even the four years of shiai
you get two here and if that wasn't
enough it gets pretty laggy fairly often
it's got this horrible tiny vibration
motor put it this way I'm not surprised
that you can already get this thing for
like 30 to 40% off even though it's only
been out for a few months
hardly manages to
deliver which is why we need to give it
its own wooden spoon
okay so what is the best flagship phone
of 2024 if you just truly want the best
of the best well honestly I think the
OnePlus 12 is absolutely amazing for
slightly less money than the rest the
Google pixel 9 Pro XL is very good for
people who are a bit less into gaming
and more into AI supercharged
photography but this has felt like a
particularly great year for Samsung
software they've gone quite suddenly
from having one of the weakest software
skins to one of the strongest and so
even though not every piece of Hardware
they've made this year has been a hit
their topend s24 Ultra does come out as
a very immediate top Contender some of
their Samsung AI stuff is actually
useful battery life is amazing the S Pen
is physically baked inside and also this
anti-reflective display theyve put onto
it is amazing don't underestimate it and
all of this is happening while I would
go as far as to say apple has floundered
even though yes the iPhone camera does
come out on top aside from that the
battery improvements were not
significant basically no other Hardware
changed and the key new thing is Apple
intelligence which is both very early
right now and also coming to last year's
Pros anyway also I don't really like iOS
18 I feel like the two key things that
have changed are one the control center
which makes zero sense to me I just
don't understand how Apple decided that
the key thing their users want in the
next update is a full screen music
widget even though they have a music
widget here and then you scroll down
another page and you've just got an
expanded list of the same controls that
you also still have on your homepage
page why and then you got the new photos
app which is just beyond confusing and
slower to navigate and so while
obviously choosing a phone nowadays is
highly based on ecosystem if we just put
that to the side who made the best phone
this year I would say
Samsung until I tested this Vivo I wish
the body of this phone was a little less
sticky but apart from that vivo's origin
OS is so fast so smooth like I said
before the camera is shockingly good
it's like the best parts from every
phone camera put together and the
battery is amazing when I use this phone
it genuinely feels like I've just
inserted a cheat code and have Early
Access to next year's device it it feels
naughty and so it brings me great
pleasure to announce that the overall
champion of 2024 is in fact the Vivo
X200 Pro the bad news is it's not easy
to get hold of in countries like the UK
and the US the good news is that if this
phone really appeals to you then the
Oppo Find X 8 Pro is really similar and
much easier to get it's the same parent
company making both and so the core DNA
behind them is pretty much identical to
find out how we've turned this room that
we're sitting in right now into the
perfect living room click here and I
will catch you in the next one